The Turing Machine
According to Wikipedia:
"A Turing machine is a device that manipulates symbols on a strip of tape
according to a table of rules. Despite its simplicity, a Turing machine
can be adapted to simulate the logic of any computer algorithm, and is
particularly useful in explaining the functions of a CPU inside a
computer."
Unlike what the name suggests, it is not a physical machine but rather a
theoretical model. It's very simply, but describes the fundamental
capabilities of practically all computers in use today. This means that if
something can be done on a computer, it can also be done on a Turing
machine. This makes it a great model for scientists to use to discover the
limits of computers (e.g. complexity theory) and also to show to a broad
audience how a computer fundamentally operates.
However, abstract models are just that, an abstraction of something. In
order to really show how simple the fundamental model of a computer is, we
have developed a physical implementation of the Turing machine, using LEGO
Mindstorms NXT.
Hardware: LEGO
Our LEGO Turing machine uses a tape based on a classic interpretation of
computer memory: switches. Additionally, it uses a light sensor to
determine the value of a switch: if the switch is on, the sensor will see
the black colour of the switch's surface. But if it is turned off, the
sensor will see the white colour of the LEGO beam, making it possible to
distinguish between the states. Finally, a rotating beam mounted above the
tape can flip the switch in both directions.
Alan Turing's original model has an infinite tape, but LEGO had a slight
problem supplying infinite bricks. So we chose to fix our tape size to 32
positions. Our LEGO Turing machine only uses automatic components that are
part of a single LEGO Mindstorms NXT set: one NXT brick, three electric
motors and one color sensor. The final model contains parts of the NXT 2.0
set as well as a bunch of parts (mostly large beams, but also a cork screw
and a set of gear racks) from two other LEGO Technic sets. We believe a
slightly smaller version can be constructed using only one Mindstorms NXT
2.0 set (8547-1) and the medium-sized Technic set Mobile Crane (8053-1),
which are both currently available.
[...]
